1. Attendance seems to have one of the most distinct relationships with average exam score. 
As we can see in our coorelation graph, a large majority of the highest scores were from student that attened class frequently.
In fact, out of the 44 highest averaging student, 42 of them visted class frequently, and the other two visited occassionally. 
The average (of exam averages) for students who visited class frequently and occassionally were high as well, with only one data point in each that could be considered an outlier.
I believe it is safe to say that students who attend STAT 3113 more frequently will be more likely to do better on their exams.

2. Students in STAT 3113 seem to be consistent between tests on average.
There is a steady trend showing that the score a student gets on exam one is similar to the scores they get on exam two and three.
There are cases where this does not hold true however, each exam has some outliers where a couple students have drasticly different score between exams.
But for the majority of students, this trend holds true.

3. Since this study had a disproportiante amount of upper class men to lower class men, I decided the best way to evaluate the coorelation between attendance and college level was a contour graph.
The contour graph will give more of an emphasis on the proportion of students (per class level) that atteneded class frequently, rather than just the number.
From looking at the contour graph, there seems to be negligable difference between class levels when it comes to attendance.
All classes had a large chunk of their students attending frequently, with a slightly smaller percentage of students attend occasionally.
Only a slightly larger percentage of sophmores and juniors attened class rarely or never compared to freshman are seniors.

4. The relationship between class level and exam scores seems to be similar to our last relationship.
Our boxplots show that the interquartile ranges for each class level are very close to each other, as well as the means.
The sophmore class is the only class level with a slightly lower mean compared to the other class levels, but this could simply be attributed to the sophmore class having the lowest outlier by far.

5. According to our data, the top 3 performing majors, based on average exam scores, are
Architectrual Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, and Mining Engineering. However, when we compare the reliability of this data to the rest of our data, it is much lower.
This is because we have a wide variety of majors that have taken STAT 3113, so our data for most of these majors consists of a comparibly smaller sample size. 
With that being said, I believe there is insufficent data here to draw a strong conclusion on which major's have a better chance of obtaining higher exam scores.

6. Using a histogram to analyze our section data, it seems that there is not a big difference between taking section 101 and section 102.
Both sections have similar data distributions. If we were to point out one difference, however, section 101 seems to be slightly more left skewed, though it is barely noticeable.
Odds are that section number will not have an impact on a  student's exam score.

7.  (Atendance and Section number)
